and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show I'm your host
Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't done
so yet check out our weekly email where
I'm showing actual website marketing
tips useful podcasts free guides
resources and more to kick off your week
every Monday with a bang why not give it
a shot over at businessgrowth dot email
join me today I've got Harry Hansen
carries the VP in marketing over at
spyroad AI Carrie welcome to the show
how you doing I'm doing well thanks for
having me I'm excited to to chat today
yeah likewise looking forward to this
one because it's a juicy topic I think a
lot of people will probably be think
looking at title thinking oh this sounds
pretty interesting so we've been
chatting all things how businesses can
build credibility in markets that are
dominated by larger bigger companies and
how they can build up that all-important
reputation and grow their business so
first and foremost Carrie how important
is credibility when it comes to a B2B
company
um I think it's everything frankly uh
when you're selling to other businesses
you have to do a lot of proof you have
to make sure that when they buy they're
risking their business and making sure
that you can deliver on your promise
that they respect you that you're going
to be there in the long haul it it's
meaningful to them
yeah yeah and do you do you think it's
it's mainly because it's a trust Builder
is it a brand Builder it's a like
psychological elements to it too in
terms of the audience or is there a
bunch of things involved I think all of
that definitely plays into having the
initial conversations and making the
connections but I think ultimately when
you're when you're selling to another
business it really comes down to you
know less of an emotional connection and
more of can they trust you which there's
an emotional connection to it but if you
have the credibility and the proof and
the validation it sort of takes that
trust off of the table because they need
to run their business and if your
product or your service isn't going to
live up to what you promise it's very
different than you know if you go into
Best Buy or a consumer store and you buy
something you don't like it you can
return it it doesn't it doesn't work
that way in B2B it actually affects how
you're working with your own customers
yeah and I suppose in B2B as well is
often the cell cycles are longer and
often the
pricing the ticket ticket of the actual
items themselves are a lot more
significant when compared to b2c so
suppose that element of credibility just
kicks in a heck of a lot more when when
items are less transactional yeah I
think it does and I also think
but it takes a lot more time from the
buyer and so they're putting in a lot of
effort and
um you know if if you lose credibility
it just derails the whole process on
their side too yeah yeah and we're gonna
be sharing your strategy a step-by-step
walkthrough of how how Brands can build
credibility and go against some of the
monsters in their Market but just before
we do is becoming a leader in dominated
Industries if there are massive
competitors
um out there
is it is it really possible to to get up
to their level or close to if you are a
startup
yeah absolutely I I believe uh my my
entire career has been working with
startups taking on the big guys in the
B2B space but I actually think
um it's one of the easiest things to
accomplish you'll never have the brand
recognition of you know a five billion
dollar company uh until you are that
size you'll never have the reach but if
you can become a thought leader you
actually are probably more focused on it
than they are because they're spread
across so many other areas and so I
personally believe it's the one place
where you really can
um put them on the defense very quickly
you mentioned the word easy that's that
scares me a bit you sound almost
it's easy it's easier than you know you
can never you you can never out Market
uh a giant company who has a 20 million
dollar advertising spit you just can't
do it sure and so I think it's all
relative like it's not easy that you can
just do it to be done but I think it's
uh realistic maybe that's a better word
yeah forgive me I just like giving my
guests a hard time
um but what do you think of some of the
before we get into this strategy what do
you think of some of the advantages you
have over a larger scale organization
that might be a bit more corporate that
might have a lot more things in place
what are some of the advantages that you
have over them
um well I think first and foremost is
personality uh smaller companies they're
still people
um it's not a hundred thousand and uh
you can talk about some big brands that
have a little bit of a personality but
it's it's not a person uh you know maybe
you might have a Steve Jobs but uh I
think the smaller companies it's really
about the people behind the technology
in the service uh and I just I think
that that's one of the biggest assets I
also think that there's a lot more
agility a lot more flexibility a lot
more risk taking you know you still you
still have to be corporate you still
have to be professional uh but if
something's not working you can pivot a
lot faster than the bigger companies
yeah that's what was what was in my mind
really because I guess when you've got a
larger established company you've got a
lot more staff you've got a lot more
people involved in the c-suite so
decisions just don't get made as quick
so when you're a startup you're a lot of
scrappier that's what I found as well
when I've been in smaller companies you
can kind of get get stuff done fast if
you want to get it done you can fail
fast or you can win super fast
especially when it comes to marketing
experiments yeah sales whatever it might
be you can put it to the market and see
what sticks and act on it yeah well and
especially when we're talking about that
leadership you know a lot of it is
having commentary and inserting an
opinion and smaller companies they can
react faster so if something's going on
you know if you're a security company
and there's a breach you can very
quickly just get on the phone and
provide commentary where the bigger
companies they need to make sure that
when the breach isn't going to affect
them that they have something to say you
know they just have a lot of red tape
that they have to go through and and
sometimes you know whoever can in the
middle of of a news
um cycle or some chaos going out in the
market whoever can go out and just calm
people down that's the person they're
going to turn to and bigger companies
aren't able to be in that position where
smaller companies you know security is
an easy example
um but there's you know know every
industry has something where you can get
out and you can talk while the bigger
companies are working through their red
tape and by the time they come out they
don't really have much to say beyond the
very you know the the lawyers have
sanitized it to the point where it's not
helpful yeah yeah yeah it's a great
point it's a great point so that said
let's jump into this framework because I
know it's something you followed a
couple of organizations you've been in
carry so what are the some of the first
considerations that we should think
about when it comes to building up our
brand building up our credibility in a
new market well I think every every
company needs to figure out first as a
company what's your vision what's the
overall message not about your product
but you know if you're in security
what's your vision for the market uh if
you're like us at Spiro our vision for
the market is that we want to kill CRM
we hate it we think that there's a
better way and so it's a very it's a
very vague Vision but then when you
start talking about you know do you want
to be a thought leader you you can
really figure out okay behind that
vision
as an executive depending on what your
role is what are you going to do the
company message is very different
they're going to talk about how they're
going to do it
um but you know you could a CTO can talk
about why are they going to do it the
CEO can talk about why it's so important
to them you can talk about you know how
to make it a little bit more
approachable you know you can be the
person that makes technology simple for
somebody you could be the person that
has a lot of experience and you can
share the tips and tricks like you can
sort of pick what what's your little
niche and then you can actually start
building your credibility you know you
don't have to take on and boil the ocean
you want to sort of focus and just
Hammer Hammer that one corner yeah I
think when you said killing CRM my eyes
lit up and probably anyone that's ever
done sales in their life probably
thought that sounds fantastic
so how maybe you can share with when it
comes to actually coming up with a
vision or a message have you got any
tips and feel free to use Spire as an
example of how to come up with a vision
or a message or such you're going to
resonate with Buyers okay the people
that gonna buy stuff well I think you
know so Sparrow is a great example I
joined about four years ago
um and that you know everybody at the
company would talk about why they hated
CRM and why you know we were we were in
a position to come out with an entirely
new approach and so everybody that I
talked about that you know internally
the thing that we got so excited about
was nobody like CRM I mean there's a
salesperson does not exist that's like
oh my God I love my CRM and so it just
sort of became the Mantra and from a
marketing perspective I was like well
let's capitalize on that like let's
let's build it out a little bit more the
the CEO would would fire up the
employees about like we hate it we hate
it we're gonna go kill it and then when
we talked externally all of our
processors were like oh yeah no I hate
it you don't have to belabor that point
and so we were like well you know what
this this is what we want to do like we
don't have to hide it we we can be
um you know a little bit um
controversial we can have a personality
and so it came very clear like this is
what we want to do my last company uh it
was a security software company I was
higher number 30. we sold to Fortune 500
cios and so they were they were much
more
um polished they were very professional
you know security is a very different
space and so you know with with that
company it really came down to you know
our vision for the market was we wanted
to empower those cios to really be the
heroes of their company and so obviously
you know there's a lot of like how
behind it you you figured out the very
quickly and at that space we were taking
on you know a very small company called
Oracle
uh yeah just a little one yeah yeah I
just thought you know a little a little
one um and but it was really about how
you know it was a best practice approach
with sell point of how could we work
with the cios and show them like you
don't have to be worried about what's
gonna happen at night and at Spiro you
know it's a very different it's more of
the look we know you hate that product
that everyone is throwing at you so
let's not let's just do something better
um and and that Vision becomes very
clear and it doesn't have to be tied
specifically to your product or your
company and I think that's where you
know a lot of of Executives they almost
they get paralyzed because they're like
well that's not what my product but it
it doesn't matter what your product and
your service technically does right now
it's what are you trying to do to the
market what's that position because
that's where you'll find you know I
mentioned personality a few times
that's where you'll find any founder any
owner of a small company when you when
you hit the right message in the vision
they get very passionate about it and
you can see it coming out and that's
something that you cannot create
um and you can't fake and so once you
see that passion you know you're onto
something yeah and was there anything
you run like I like the two comparisons
because they're both vastly different
which is which is great so is there
anything that you run or you recommend
companies run as an organization to make
sure it's actually the messaging is
actually going to hit the net on the
head when it comes to your Target
customers as well as internally
well I think
um certainly you have to really be
talking to your customers uh because
there's a there's a very clear path that
the founders and the owners clearly this
is what they see they're going to do
this is where they want to go but you
also have to figure out you know what
what are the words that your customers
are using why are they they talking to
you what's resonating with them and then
you have to figure out sort of what's
the Delta because you want to get them
to understand your vision but you want
to put it in words that are meaningful
to them and so I think there's a lot of
conversations that need to happen a lot
of questions that you you need to pay
attention to and it's you know I think
it's one of those things where
Executives sometimes they're like well
but this is where I want to go and the
customer just doesn't know it yet and
it's it's a valid point if you're in a
new market if you're an emerging
technology especially in B2B but you
have to understand where are your
customers and what gets them excited
because then you can take well here's my
my passion my vision here's what I know
is is really bothering them you know at
sell point with the cios it was if they
were going to have a data breach that
could end their career I mean it was as
simple as that and that's not something
that we would talk about but you could
tell like they were concerned about
something bad could potentially happen
and so it's almost like an insurance
sale and so we became more of look we
can help you we want to put you in a
power position and I think at Spiro you
know it's
when we talk to our and our customers
they are frustrated because they can't
get their their sales people to use the
product because they hate it and so you
know we're like well of course they hate
it nobody wants to use it you're giving
them a rotary phone and they want the
iPhone so let us help you and it's you
know you can sort of figure it out how
to connect that pain point with your
vision and really push it forward
last point on messaging how much of an
impact do you think messaging has on an
overall marketing strategy
um well since I'm a head of marketing
it's quite a broad question it is a
broad question I think
um you know I think that's a challenging
question in that you know messaging is
critical to any marketing strategy but
messaging is not the strategy and so you
know it really comes down to you have to
have messaging if it's the wrong
messaging you have to iterate it because
if you have the wrong messaging and
you're trying to execute you're going to
fail and if you if you really are paying
attention that messaging will evolve
over time as it should but you know
you're not out there
um banging on the drums you're out there
saying something and if somebody's not
listening to you you have to say it
differently and so that's where I think
messaging is is absolutely critical but
and it's a big but you don't have to
have it perfect and it's not going to be
the same three and six months down the
road you're gonna evolve as you should
yeah yeah yeah that's it okay so moving
forward let's say we've nailed our
messaging what what comes next Carrie
well so once you have your messaging and
you know what do you want to be the
thought leader in and so this is where
you know the personality really comes
out are you a consultant and you want to
really help them and make you know your
technology for example more
um more digestible you know for us at
Spiro we're a artificial intelligence
platform and we're selling into
um manufacturing companies and so that
can be really daunting because they
don't have I.T and so our approach is
the CEO can help them understand that AI
is really approachable for them it's not
that scary and it's actually not that
complicated for them to put in it makes
their life easier and so you know you
could be that con that con consultant
person you could be the person who if
you've done it over and over and over
again and you want to help them a lot of
services companies I think this is where
you know they might want to pick that
that corner of you know I've I've had 25
clients in the last year let me show you
how to do it so you don't have to have
all of the problems and you'd be more of
like the how-to or you can be the
Visionary and I think there's some
really cool Visionaries of out there of
you know here's what's going to happen
in five years here's where where the
Market's going to go in five years or
you can be the contrarian of look this
is what everybody's thinking I I view it
differently and so you pick you know
which one matches your personality and
you can have a little bit of all of them
and then you just start sharing your
thoughts so for example if you are
going to take the um the consultant
approach you know you can just start
talking about you know here's how people
should be thinking about things here's
something that you know I see companies
that I'm working with and talking to
they get held up on this point and you
know they're missing the broader issue
and just sort of providing that value
over and over and over again if you want
to be more of the Visionary you can you
can talk about you know this is where
the market is going and this is why and
you can really tell a compelling story
and you can tie it to as news events are
out there explaining this is why this is
really important you know going back to
sell point you know I mentioned it it's
in the security helped address security
breaches and so it was really easy every
time there was a security breach um
every time there was you know some
company had their their password their
customer passwords stolen we could go
out and talk to the Press very quickly
it didn't affect us our product probably
um in some of the consumer examples
wouldn't have solved it but we could
just talk about why identity theft was a
big issue and why companies needed to
pay attention to it and it just gave us
a platform to talk about it I think you
know at Spiro as we talk about what's
going on in the world we sell to
manufacturers the supply chain issues
affect them and so you know you can hear
something going on in in the news about
you know some some supply chain issues
happening or you know there's over
inflation going on there's inventory
challenges and we can talk about well
here's how AI could help you and here's
what AI could do for you or you know the
great resignation everybody was talking
about it uh the companies that we're
working with they actually have a
challenge where not is not only are we
seeing as a country over here in the U.S
this great resignation but the companies
that we're talking to they actually are
having a gigantic portion of their
Workforce retiring right so that's a
whole different challenge
um and it's you know it's a positive
challenge you want to celebrate somebody
gives you 40 years but there's a lot
that you can talk about uh related to
how can your company address that and
you just start talking about it you can
pick a platform LinkedIn social media
the press and you just start having that
opinion and sharing it yep yep so we've
got two steps there what you want to be
known for and then the the content that
you want to put out there we'll get a
bit more into to content and how you can
come up with that in a sec but in terms
of kind of what you actually want to be
known for how often have you seen it
with organizations where they think they
want to be known for one thing
and then actually flips because the
market says no this is not a Goa we
actually want you for this is that is
that something that often happens or is
it usually that the founders of the
company kind of nail it first time
I think um the reality is that I don't
think a Founder says I want to be known
for being a consultant or I want to be
known for being provocative I think you
just see their personality and then it
works
um and you know you could be sort of a
mix of both and I think over time you
might go from one to the other and back
and forth but you know I don't think I
don't think any founder or any company
owner is going to say you know I want to
be this Visionary person and that's the
only thing I'm going to talk to and then
if they they start talking to people and
to reporters and writing pieces that are
really more about you know tips and
tricks and examples they just sort of
get pulled over into that place but that
doesn't mean that they're not that that
Visionary and so it's not it's not a
pick it and stick to it it's more of a
you know have a starting point so that
you know what kind of content you want
to create but if you evolve or if the
market says you know I I want to hear
from you on this I think that's a really
good Evolution because it shows if the
market says you know this is great your
your vision is interesting but tell me
how to get there the they obviously are
starting to see you as an expert and so
it's the step in the right direction
because then you have to tell them how
right like there does come a point where
you have to back up what you're telling
them
okay and with that said are we saying
this from the company as in the brand
whatever we're called point of view are
we talking about this from the people
involved in the organization or is it is
it both for this this side of things I
think it's both and I think it's you
have to pay attention to your audience
uh if you're speaking to a customer uh
you're probably speaking as an executive
with the company and so you know what
you say and what the company says is one
and the same like their customer is not
going to differentiate that if you're
talking to the market you know you can
be talking as uh the person who happens
to be owning a company and that's just
another you know point in your
background but I don't think you can
divorce the two
um but by the same token I think if you
are putting something out from the
company it's going to sound like the
company and hopefully your company has
its own personality whereas if you put
it out from the CEO or the CEO or even
the CFO they have their own personal
quality and it should look like that but
it shouldn't contradict what the company
is saying yeah yeah got it so you after
that step you mentioned putting together
content and suggested some some ideas so
I mean contact content's a broad thing
there's there's so many things that
constitute when it comes to content
whether it's media whether it's copy
whether it's blog articles social posts
whatever it might be
um how does a company what should be
some of the steps that companies take
when it comes to actually I suppose
there's two parts of this question
actually what they should talk about and
share and then where they should decide
the platform so then distribute it and
get it in front of people
yeah
um I mean content we could have a
probably a whole series uh oh easy yeah
content um it's it's not easy but
sometimes it's actually you don't have
to over complicate it and so you know I
think that there's different kinds of
content you know we can talk about some
really in-depth web pieces that you're
going to spend a lot of Cycles on some
research pieces things like that but
also
um you know depending on the format uh
you could your Executives could just
have con conversations on LinkedIn and I
think it really first it depends on
where are your your audience going to be
so if you're in the B2B world they're
probably on Facebook but they don't want
to engage with you on Facebook
um they are most likely on LinkedIn and
they want to engage with you
professionally on LinkedIn I mean there
there's always you know some well in our
world that works differently but you
know like at a security company I can
tell you they the cios definitely did
not want to hear from us on Facebook it
would have been weird I think even here
at Spiro we might be talking to Future
employees through our Facebook page but
our customers are not it's just it's not
a place but like who sits in uh Facebook
while they're you know at the end of the
day they put their kids to bed and
they're like oh I want to look at CRM
like it just it doesn't make sense
um but on LinkedIn you're having those
kinds of conversations other other uh
companies they they'll be very different
they might be on Tick Tock they might be
on YouTube they might have their own
Forum so wherever those customers are
and your future customers
that's where you want to go and you have
to pay attention to what kind of content
is there and so if it's long form it's
long form but
um you know you could start if if it's
these long in-depth conversations and
you just don't have the Cycles to create
that you can comment on somebody else
and you can have the conversation and
engage it
um it might be in some Industries a
trade show and maybe you're not speaking
yet but you can go to the trade show and
just socialize and meet people and
insert yourself with your opinion and so
it really it really does come down to I
think when people think of content they
think of really long everybody touches
it you know 10 page PDF and that's not
it's just put something out there and
you know if you simplify it and just
start with you know maybe in your space
there on Twitter that that's a lot
easier to have an opinion on
um okay yeah I get that so yeah create
create the con work out where your
buyers are hanging out create your own
channels they'd like to consume it on
for it's going to be relevant towards
your industry maybe you can give us an
example Carrie so Inspire right or maybe
the security company that you're with
what were some of the actions that they
took when they were first putting out
content when they first wanted to build
up credibility in the market
what were some of the key foundational
things they did from a Content
perspective that you think kind of
helped secure growth and credibility
I think um so I I worked at a PR agency
uh for 10 years we were talking about
this before we we started the
conversation uh I worked with startup
companies so they were unknowns taking
on on uh larger competitors in whatever
market and I think that the Playbook uh
regardless of what industry and what
stage you are is is the same you you get
your message you figure out what you're
going to do and you start coming up with
some core pieces
um you know write four or five
paragraphs and just start publishing it
so it's sort of the right once published
five times and uh you can reach out to
Publications uh they they all are short
staffed they're looking for expert
commentary just send it to them they
might be looking for a quote here and
there but it's you know if you have this
core piece with your opinion
um what's going on in the market you
have to have something but you just
start putting it out there and I think
the press and Publications is a really
good place to start because they are
looking for new cases on a daily basis
and they also really need New
Perspectives and so this is where you
know you can go you can see what they're
reading you can provide something new
and then once you start building up the
traction you know like I said it's a
right once published five times you can
get something you can publish it on an
online article or publication website
that your your readers might be reading
it's probably not going to be the Wall
Street Journal don't even try with the
Wall Street Journal but I guarantee
every industry has an unknown newsletter
that everybody that you want to talk to
reads that everybody has it right so go
to that newsletter and start inserting
things and once you get something
published then you can share it on
LinkedIn and then you can you know start
posting it and be like hey I put this
here I'm curious do you have the same
thought and it's one piece drives all of
these conversations and then you do it
again and it's the core story is the
same but it's a new maybe it's something
that happened in the news that you want
to relate this is why it's important and
this is what you know you just start
building that story over and over again
and it it takes a lot of persistence
early on but it's sort of like the
Avalanche where you know you start a
couple snowflakes here and there and it
takes a while and then once it all
sticks suddenly you're you know skiing
down an avalanche of everybody wants to
talk about it
yeah yeah the pr route's interesting I
imagine it's pretty good for SEO as well
if you're acquiring some nice links from
some good press releases some good
articles online it's going to build up
your your Authority on Google as well as
from a PR perspective and as well as
your potential buyers reading these
industry Publications yeah I think you
know from a PR perspective and an SEO
perspective this is where a lot of
companies you know they think PR is I'm
going to go and talk to the press and
then SEO that's my website I don't
really know what I want to do with it
but you know people talk about it
um I one thing that that I don't think
small companies understand is
Publications own SEO and so if you were
one of the things that Spiro wants to do
we hate CRM we're introducing a new way
we call a proactive relationship
management if you Google that the number
one result is a piece that we wrote for
a publication because the publication
has the domain Authority on the website
or on Google their website is going to
own it I have no problem with them
owning the number one result because
they will always own that but when you
click on it it's all about us
it's a win right like and then once you
get into there it comes to our website
and of course that link is is a lot of
power and so I do think that it's
something that you know you think of it
from a PR or publicity and it's not
really about that it's about building it
out getting it out there I also think
people don't understand that LinkedIn is
the new search engine when you're
looking in the B2B world do you go to
Google or do you go to LinkedIn or do
you go to like a G2 for reviews if
you're actually looking at products like
the search engine world is changing and
I don't think people understand that and
the more that LinkedIn opens it up you
might have one piece that went viral had
a lot of Engagement that's going to
start showing up in Google when you open
things up and you know it it pays off
down the road
and I am actually curious if you're
you're the maybe I've gone Rogue on uh
our SEO strategy but you know I if
somebody else is going to promote my
story and they have the SEO juice my
view is yes please do it
yeah I mean if if it's your own content
and it's Spiro branded and it's got a
link back to your website why not I mean
it makes it makes sense to me it doesn't
necessarily have to be a website does it
it's like you said a juicy backlink from
a website that's got high domain
Authority so absolutely fine for me
um yeah I think you're right I think I I
don't know if you're asking my opinion
but I'm gonna get it
yeah it's not the way to do that but I
mean yeah it's it's a funny one right
because the beat the way buyers buy
especially in the B2B space attribution
as I say on many podcasts is a is a
crazy thing and very difficult to
measure in some cases because there's so
many different touch points so some
people yeah if they're ready to buy your
stuff they might just go to Google and
they might search in your case like I
don't know something relevant uh
manufacturing cell CRM whatever some of
your target Search terms are and they
might be a high intent Prospect and then
they might request a demo whereas other
people they might do that but they might
also ask their peers on their slack
group or their Skype group or whatever
what are the best CRM for this or
otherwise they might like you say head
to one of the review sites like G2 or
captera check some ratings on there then
make an inquiry other people might go to
their LinkedIn feed might see some of
your content see some of your paid ads
see some of the case studies and then
over time listen to your podcast consume
some more content then inquire so it's
it's not one size fits all so that's why
in my opinion having a multi-channel
marketing plan where you've got three or
four channels that your buyers are using
daily just makes sense well yeah and I
think this is where from a marketing
perspective of I focus Less on
attribution I mean certainly some of my
campaigns I want to know if they're
driving specific but I focus on the
conversion point and the great thing
about
um the thought leadership is You're
Building credibility so you know you're
gonna have all of these touch points if
somebody goes out and they say I think I
think I want to look more into Spiro if
they go to G2 when they see a ton of
reviews it validates it if they Google
what what is this proactive relationship
management and they see a well-respected
publication talking about it
interviewing our CEO it validates our
CEO and it's so every every if they go
to LinkedIn and they see oh two people
that I'm connected to engaged with this
person who's tied this like it it's sort
of the breadcrumbs of The credibility
and this is where it comes it's so
important in the B2B world because
they're not going to buy from you just
because you were in that article but if
they're leaning that way and then they
start googling it and they're like oh
everyone is everyone knows this company
it just solidifies things for you yeah
yeah I mean like you say unless your
item is is quite
low value it's just like not a detailed
decision it's like a few bucks a month
then yeah they might just had to decide
and buy it whereas if if you're talking
thousands of dollars a month you're
probably gonna involve multiple
stakeholders in your organization it's
not going to be something you head to
the website click your fingers yeah
you're going to buy it it's going to be
something you think about for time and
like you said you might happen to
consume a bunch of content you might
listen to podcasts you might read some
articles you might check out LinkedIn go
back to the website speak to some peers
and all that good stuff until you
finally make the decision to to go ahead
because you've you really trust this
organization is going to deliver and do
a good job here yeah and I think that's
why thought leadership in my opinion is
so important to smaller companies
because if you if you go out and you do
research these big companies they're
gonna own it they you know CRM is a
great example Salesforce invented the
term they own it if you Google CRM
you're going to find all these
Salesforce things if you go to the
reviews you're gonna find tens of
thousands of reviews it they own that
space But from a thought leader
leadership perspective if I can get in
front of them on the marketing and you
know from the cells and they start
looking at it and comparing us against
the sales force and then they go out and
they do that type of search of what is
this you know this startup I've never
really heard of but I'm really intrigued
how are they doing against Salesforce
and then all of these articles start
showing up and all of these reviews
start showing up then it solidifies that
and that's where I think the thought
leadership you know you're not going to
dominate against the gorilla in the in
the industry but you can sort of put
them on their heels because they won't
have this and they won't you know it's
like if you're looking on something on
Instagram as a consumer and you're like
oh I think I might buy this new vacuum
and suddenly everyone's like oh my God I
have that vacuum it's the greatest
vacuum in the world so you're like oh
okay well I'm gonna buy it and it's the
same thing in the B2B space where the
thought leadership it doesn't drive
people to you but it definitely is one
of the biggest advantages against those
competitors and when you need it the
most yeah yeah it definitely helps
um and I think I think you alluded it to
to it as well especially the CRM example
is in my opinion anyway hone down on
your Niche so understand who your buyers
are and understand the specific thing
that they're interested in because like
you said if you're going after CRM it's
almost an impossible task so yeah if you
can Niche down and drill down into who
you want to into who you want to provide
to whoever that was in this case maybe
Finance your M or whatever your specific
Niche is and it helps so much
um yeah yeah so that said
we're creating content we're putting it
out there
um do we just do that stay consistent
and gradually improve it and that'll be
enough to build up our credibility in
the market or is there is there a bit
more to it I think
um I think it really comes down to focus
and consistency so you you you will get
to the place where whatever your vision
is whatever your story is it will feel
like you're talking about it and it's
boring and that's the point where it's
just starting to resonate externally and
you have to stay focused on it you have
to keep that consistent publishing and
then I I think the last piece is really
you have to engage other people so
initially it's going to be you know
you're just on the megaphone putting it
out there but once you get to the point
and you start building it up up your
credibility you have to engage other
people you have to be Associated then
that's when you know you want on
LinkedIn ask questions or comment on
other people and and start connecting
yourself with like-minded similar people
go to trade shows sit on panels with
them and and really sort of build it up
because as certain point it's great for
you to be talking it's great for people
to find it but to really you know lock
it in and anchor it you have to sort of
build this community that all agrees
with you and and then it just amplifies
at a level that nobody can keep up with
um yeah yeah engaging in in the LinkedIn
fees good especially in bsp like I say
because you can kind of reach you can
basically build up reputation with
people that aren't potentially in your
own network so other people can see uh
your comments and you can ramp up your
credibility that way and they click
through to your profile and see what
you're all about especially if you're
adding kind of useful insightful
actionable tips on other people's posts
for sure are there any other lesser
known ways Carrie that you've seen that
you can
basically raised on the point she said
there so ramp up your your network
um so it's not necessarily just you with
your megaphone putting out your content
each day whether it is articles press
releases whether that's LinkedIn content
or elsewhere any other strategies that
you found quite useful in terms of kind
of amplifying that by basically stealing
other people's networks and and or their
communities yeah so in the pr world we
used to call this ambulance chasing
where there's a couple ways you could do
it you know on the at a security company
anytime another company
um in an unrelated industry has a
security breach you can go out and
comment on it because it's safe you want
to make sure it's not the type of bridge
that would affect you you don't want to
put a Target on your back with the
hackers
um but you know we would call it
ambulance chasing where if somebody else
had you know a big company had a breach
we would go out to all of the press and
we would give them commentary because we
knew the big companies were not going to
comment on that because they couldn't
and so you know we just sort of stepped
in and I think
I think there's a lot to be said for
that you know um it's a tongue-in-cheek
with the ambulance chasing but if you
look at what's going on in the news and
you have a
um this built this credibility up if
something happens whether it's to a
competitor it's something somewhat
related and you can comment safely you
should get there and comment and then
you know the other way that you could do
it to really sort of hijack other
people's networks on LinkedIn where all
the B2B buyers are they don't want to
send people off of their platform and
you know the if you start looking into
the algorithm of of LinkedIn if somebody
shares your your post versus comments on
it it doesn't go as far because they
LinkedIn thinks it's duplicate but if
you see an article or if you see
somebody else posting um that has a big
following in posting you could share it
and link to them because if you link to
them it shows up on their page so if you
share a post from somebody in the
industry who has 10 000 followers you
link to them say this was a really
interesting perspective they missed
these two points and sort of piggyback
on it
by linking to them that person's network
is going to see it too and so then those
10 000 followers might come to you and I
think that there's a lot of ways you
know on Twitter if you're on Twitter you
can do that where you sort of insert
yourself into their conversation so that
their followers see you and pull them
over and you know you can also engage
with them on conversations so that at
some point they might actually follow
you and then they'll share for you and
you know if somebody who has a bigger
following comments on yours all of their
followers will will come over to your
space yeah I love these tips because
they're so useful the organization for
organizations that can move fast don't
have tons of red tape like I talked
about earlier and basically want to gain
some credibility you want to build up
Their audience for next to no cash
um one of the strategies that I steadily
do in the background is also going on
industry relevant podcasts so that's
another way that can work well for
organizations that want to do these kind
of things so basically find out what are
the top 50 podcasts that your audience
listen to in your sec vector and then
start pitching the house so then whether
that's on LinkedIn whether that's via
email however you can get a hold of them
and then you're reaching out each time
you're guessing on one you're hitting a
new audience that's potentially your
ideal client like you say building up
your PR probably helping your SEO a bit
when they put out the article and link
to your site
um so yeah there's many ways like you
say that you can make this happen yeah I
think podcasts are great and you know so
your your model is great obviously when
this comes out I'm going to share it
with my network of hey I was here and so
they you have this whole new audience
and I think um companies can do that
Spiro actually we recently launched our
own podcast uh just because we want to
start not talking about our product not
talking about our company but just start
talking about what's going on in the
supply chain with customers that we're
selling to and customers that we're not
selling to frankly and every time that
we post it you know they they will share
it to their Network and it just builds a
bigger Community
um you know I think five years ago this
is probably what trade shows did you
would go you would host you would speak
but the post-pandemic world and no one's
traveling anymore not nearly as much
yeah I think podcasts are the new way to
do it everybody is downloading things
they can listen uh you know on our side
the the great thing about podcasts is
it's a Content generation machine
because then you can take the
transcription and turn that into
something that you can SEO the heck out
of from your website and it you know
might like I said my strategy is right
once published 20 times or however many
times we can get it out there in
different formats because you know some
people want to listen to things some
people want to read things some people
just want to grab a little snippet and
you should give them the information in
the way that's meaningful to them
yeah that's that's a great way of
summing up awesome Carrie any final
points before we wrap wrap up today in
terms of any any final points people
should consider when they're doing this
strategy
um my only final point is don't be
afraid of putting yourself out there and
just having an opinion and you don't
have to boil the ocean if you are
passionate about something related to
your company just start commenting on it
and just just start engaging and over
time you will see what you really get
excited about because that's that's what
you're going to be willing to write
about and then it will build you don't
have to have this perfect plan and you
know spend you know an hour a day
writing it doesn't work like that just
start start doing what you probably
naturally do anyway with a little bit
more intention and it will build
momentum over time
awesome Carrie thank you very much for
coming on the show really enjoyed the
chat and with that please do tell our
audience more about how they can learn
from you connect with you and anything
else you'd like to share
well uh thanks for having me this is
always fun to be able to actually talk
about what's going on in marketing so
people can find me on LinkedIn
um I'm just backslash Carrie Hanson or
come and check out Spiro if uh you want
to see some of the things that we're
doing at spiro.ai and we'd love to
engage with you on either format
awesome and we'll put all of those links
over in the show notes at businessgrowth
dot marketing thanks Once Again Carrie
and as always if you enjoyed today's
episode a quick rating on your audio
podcast Channel or subscribe on YouTube
is very much appreciated and with that
we shall catch you on the next episode
for more no BS actionable marketing tips
grow business and grow your Revenue
cheers for tuning in